Despite the advice
and counsel that the organization had given,
we decided the safe course with social media
was just to forbid everything.
This didn’t work.
It caused some friction.
We didn’t show a great deal of understanding.
Well, personally for me,
raising my children is very difficult
because my husband is not a Witness.
With my oldest son,
I had a problem
when he started dating a girl.
When I found out,
I was very irritated with him
because I had taught him well
and we always talked.
And now suddenly,
he was acting differently.
We decided to flee because of the war.
That is why we went to the refugee camp.
The problem we had was that my son
started to imitate the bad conduct
of the non-Witness young ones, our neighbors.
So he needed a lot of help.
We’ve really benefited
from taking to heart
the counsel that the brothers have given
—to be reasonable with our children,
to try to understand their point of view,
and to try to help them
to draw close to Jehovah.
It’s no good just trying to say
what they should do all the time
without listening to their needs.
And so we agreed that, OK,
if we stay within the boundaries
of Bible principles,
she could use some forms of social media.
And, of course, the reaction was good.
For me, James 1:19 helped me a lot
because there it mentions
that we should “be quick to listen,
slow to speak,” and “slow to anger.”
So I realized
that I should have listened to my son first
and calmed myself down
and not gotten upset like I did.
It’s good to apologize
when we make mistakes as parents
because it will help our children in return
to realize the mistakes they are making.
We are closer,
and we feel more comfortable
talking to each other about things.
There were other activities in the camp,
but we always found time
to have our family study.
We had a few older books and magazines
that we had taken when we fled the war,
and we used these older publications
during our family study.
Usually what we do,
my wife and I,
is if there is a problem,
we discuss it together
and prepare how we
can teach our children.
The problem we had was that my son
started to imitate the bad conduct
of the non-Witness young ones, our neighbors.
So he needed a lot of help.
But after meditating on this,
I realized instead of punishing him,
I needed to reason
with him patiently to explain the dangers.